README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# c14

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#experimental)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/c14)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=c14)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/joeroe/c14/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/joeroe/c14/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![Test
coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/joeroe/c14/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/joeroe/c14)
<!-- badges: end -->

**c14** provides basic classes and functions for radiocarbon data in R.
It makes it easier to combine methods from several existing packages
(e.g. rcarbon, Bchron, oxcAAR, c14bazAAR, ArchaeoPhases, stratigraphr)
together and work with them in a tidy data workflow.

It was forked from
[stratigraphr](https://github.com/joeroe/stratigraphr) v0.3.0.

## Installation

You can install the development version of c14 from GitHub with the
[remotes](https://remotes.r-lib.org) package:

``` r
# install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github(c("joeroe/controller", "joeroe/c14"))
```

Note that the dependency
[controller](https://github.com/joeroe/controller) is also not yet
available on CRAN.

## Usage

The main aim of c14 is to make it easier to work with radiocarbon data
within a tidy workflow. For example, we can combine `dplyr::filter()`
with `c14_calibrate()` to only calibrate dates from a specific site:

``` r
library("c14")
library("dplyr", warn.conflicts = FALSE)

ppnd |>
  filter(site == "Ganj Dareh") |>
  select(lab_id, cra, error) |>
  mutate(cal = c14_calibrate(cra, error))
#> Warning: `x` has more than one modal value. Only the first will be returned.
#> `x` has more than one modal value. Only the first will be returned.
#> # A tibble: 9 × 4
#>   lab_id     cra error             cal
#>   <chr>    <int> <int>           <cal>
#> 1 GaK 807  10400   150 c. 12200 cal BP
#> 2 OxA 2099  8840   110  c. 9900 cal BP
#> 3 OxA 2100  9010   110 c. 10200 cal BP
#> 4 OxA 2101  8850   100 c. 10100 cal BP
#> 5 OxA 2102  8690   110  c. 9560 cal BP
#> 6 SI 922    8570   210  c. 9540 cal BP
#> 7 SI 923    8625   195  c. 9545 cal BP
#> 8 SI 924    8640    90  c. 9550 cal BP
#> 9 SI 925    8385    75  c. 9440 cal BP
```

The resulting `cal`-class vector can be assigned to a new column,
allowing us to keep working with the data in the context of the original
data frame or tibble.

Commit message:

Use repo status instead of lifecycle badge

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# c14

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Project Status: WIP – Initial development is in progress, but there
has not yet been a stable, usable release suitable for the
public.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/wip.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#wip)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/c14)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=c14)
[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/joeroe/c14/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/joeroe/c14/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![Test
coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/joeroe/c14/graph/badge.svg)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/joeroe/c14)
<!-- badges: end -->

**c14** provides basic classes and functions for radiocarbon data in R.
It makes it easier to combine methods from several existing packages
(e.g. rcarbon, Bchron, oxcAAR, c14bazAAR, ArchaeoPhases, stratigraphr)
together and work with them in a tidy data workflow.

It was forked from
[stratigraphr](https://github.com/joeroe/stratigraphr) v0.3.0.

## Installation

You can install the development version of c14 from GitHub with the
[remotes](https://remotes.r-lib.org) package:

``` r
# install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github(c("joeroe/controller", "joeroe/c14"))
```

Note that the dependency
[controller](https://github.com/joeroe/controller) is also not yet
available on CRAN.

## Usage

The main aim of c14 is to make it easier to work with radiocarbon data
within a tidy workflow. For example, we can combine `dplyr::filter()`
with `c14_calibrate()` to only calibrate dates from a specific site:

``` r
library("c14")
library("dplyr", warn.conflicts = FALSE)

ppnd |>
  filter(site == "Ganj Dareh") |>
  select(lab_id, cra, error) |>
  mutate(cal = c14_calibrate(cra, error))
#> Warning: `x` has more than one modal value. Only the first will be returned.
#> `x` has more than one modal value. Only the first will be returned.
#> # A tibble: 9 × 4
#>   lab_id     cra error             cal
#>   <chr>    <int> <int>           <cal>
#> 1 GaK 807  10400   150 c. 12200 cal BP
#> 2 OxA 2099  8840   110  c. 9900 cal BP
#> 3 OxA 2100  9010   110 c. 10200 cal BP
#> 4 OxA 2101  8850   100 c. 10100 cal BP
#> 5 OxA 2102  8690   110  c. 9560 cal BP
#> 6 SI 922    8570   210  c. 9540 cal BP
#> 7 SI 923    8625   195  c. 9545 cal BP
#> 8 SI 924    8640    90  c. 9550 cal BP
#> 9 SI 925    8385    75  c. 9440 cal BP
```

The resulting `cal`-class vector can be assigned to a new column,
allowing us to keep working with the data in the context of the original
data frame or tibble.
